Hepatoblastoma Albert Mendelson , M . D .
Eugene Anandappa , M . D . Children ' s Memorial Hospital Abstract 5 y / o female with a palpable abdominal mass Keywords liver , liver tumor , hepatoblastoma , liver mass , hepatobiliary Publication Date : 2004 - 05 - 25 History 5 y / o female with a palpable abdominal mass Findings CT : Well circumscribed partially calcified , mixed density mass located within the liver .
US : Well circumscribed mass with calcifications within the liver .
Diagnosis Hepatoblastoma Differential For a liver mass : Hepatocellular carcinoma ( older patients with liver disease ), metastatic disease , germ cell tumor of the liver ( rare ), rhabdomyosarcoma ( rare ), lymphoma , leukemia , infection Discussion Hepatoblastoma is the most common malignant liver tumor in early childhood .
Most patients present younger than age 3 years with an enlarging asymptomatic abdominal mass .
Some patients have fever , pain , anorexia , and weight loss .
The two most important genetic conditions associated with hepatoblastoma are Beckwith - Wiedemann syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis .
Serum alpha fetoprotein ( AFP ) level is elevated in approximately 80 % of patients with hepatoblastoma .
For evaluation of the primary tumor , MRI is the best imaging modality , although this is not always done in practice .
Because of the orthogonal - imaging capability of MRI , it is superior to CT in defining tumor margins and determining tumor resectability .
Appearance of hepatoblastoma on CT varies greatly .
Calcifications may be present , small and fine in the epithelial type and coarse and extensive in the mixed type .
Following the injection of IV contrast , some enhancement of the tumor is seen , usually less than in normal liver tissue .
The enhancement pattern typically is inhomogeneous , and a peripheral rim of enhancement may be observed if imaging is performed during the early arterial phase .
Delayed serial scans at a single level of the tumor will help distinguish hepatoblastoma from hemangioendothelioma ( hemangioma ), because hemangiomas will demonstrate contrast filling in centrally over time .
Magnetic resonance angiography ( MRA ) or CT angiography ( CTA ) can also evaluate the tumor blood supply , which is valuable information for surgical planning .
For children with resectable tumors , survival rates greater than 90 % can be seen with the addition of contemporary postoperative chemotherapy .
For children with initially unresectable tumors , preoperative chemotherapy converts approximately 75 % to a resectable condition .
Outcomes for children in whom the tumor recurs or progresses while on treatment are poor , with a 2 - year survival rate of less than 20 %.
Ultimately , some children receive hepatic transplants for unresectable tumors that are not metastatic .
References emedicine 5 images 
